- [Instructor] So now lets take a look at
the other method that we wanted to implement,
which is adaptFromJson.
We've already provided the logic for
trying to serialize and now we'll try to de-serialize.
We need to write a logic for that, too.
Let's first get rid of the default implementation.
What we are going to do is
we're going to first create a customer object.
Once that's done, then we will get hold of
the customer object and say setCustomerId.
How are we going to get this customer ID?
We have to take this adapted object parameter.
So that's adptd.getInt
because customer ID in our case is an integer field.
So we just have to make sure that we parse
the key that we had given for serialization.
That, we'll get from here, which is customerId.
Let's copy from line 26 and paste it on line 38.
Then what we have to also do is
we have to check whether the incoming Prime user,
the isPrimeUser field, is a regular user
or it is a Prime user.
If it is a regular user, then we'll have to set
the isPrimeUser boolean variable to false.
And if it's a Prime user, then we'll have to set
the isPrimeUser variable of our customer object
to a true value.
So let's write that logic quickly.
I'm going to come on line 39 and say
if the adapted version of the object,
the JSON object, .getString, and the key.
Let's take the key from line number 29.
That's the key we had given during serialization.
So we say this and then we compare it,
so we say equals Prime user.
Let's also copy the string, too.
We do not want to make any kind of spelling mistakes,
so let's copy that from line 26
and paste it on line 39.
If it is a Prime user, then we're going to say
customer.setIsPrimeUser to true.
Else, we'll do the other way around.
Else is a regular user, so let's go ahead and say
customer.setIsPrimeUser to false.
Once we are done with everything, we just have to
return that customer object back from this method.
We have done the serialization
and the de-serialization logic by
the adaptToJson and adaptFromJson methods.
Now we need to test this scenario out.
What we can do is,
let's go back to the object mapper.
Let's get rid of the unwanted imports.
Let's come down there on line 42.
I'm going to comment out this line.
And now I have to make sure that
the adapter is in action.
What you have to do for this is you have to take
the instance of your adapter class and parse it to
the JsonConfig.withAdapters API.
Once you do that, then the adapter will be in action.
So next time you try to serialize a customer object,
then you're going to be able to do that with
the help of the adapter by picking it up
from the JsonConfig object.
Let's work this out.
Go to IDE and get the config object,
and call this API called withAdapters.
And then you're going to provide an instance of
the adapter that you wrote a while ago.
So that's the customer adapters.
I'm just going to say new CustomerAdapter.
Okay, that's nice.
Now let's go ahead and make a test class
and let's call it TestCustomAdapters.
Make sure that we spelled everything right.
Let's grab the main method.
Let's make an empty Jsonb instance.
But since we have mentioned something custom
in the code for this demo, we will have to get
that config object from the object mapper.
So I'm going to say JsonbBuilder.create,
use the overloaded version,
and get that object from the object mapper.
So now the JSON config that has been
returned by this call contains my
customized adapter that is in action.
So now when I try to make a customer object ...
Let's say customer = new Customer.
Let's give all the fields.
Let's say 123 maybe,
jsonbtester,
email address, jsonbtester@gmail.com,
and let's keep this as a Prime user.
And then on the console,
what you're going to do is you're going to take
the Jsonb instance and say
.toJson and then parse in the customer object.
What is going to happen is,
since we have taken the config object,
the config object has got the custom adapter
set to it, that config object has been used to
create the Jsonb engine instance.
And to that, we're trying to parse
the customer object for serialization.
That is definitely going to be done
through the toJson API.
So now let's test this out.
Let's run this.
Yes, do you see?
Now we get only the customer ID
and the isPrimeUser, and that is the serialized output
that possibly needs to be transmitted
to some other system.
That's how it looks.
We'll also test the other way now.
Let's go ahead and instead of printing it out,
let's take it in a string variable.
I'm just going to copy the actual call in line 24,
get rid of this, and say string result equal to this.
On the next line, let's print that out
just for our reference.
And now let's do the other way around.
Let's also make use of the adaptFromJson
from the adapter class that we wrote.
So how are we going to do that?
Same thing; the process of serialization
and de-serialization is not going to change.
We're still going to call the toJson
and the fromJson APIs.
What we have changed right now is
what exactly is going to happen in the serialization.
That is the logic that we provided.
So let's take the same instance, jsonb,
and say fromJson, parse that string that
we collected just now,
and of course the type is Customer.class.
Take this entire thing and then sys out on the console.
Let's see what happens.
So that's what it is.
We had only the Prime user field
and the customer ID, and when we de-serialized,
we have the customer ID back.
And this time we have the boolean value correctly set.
When you serialize it, you actually give away
a string instead of a boolean value
because the system didn't want a true or a false,
it wanted these labels; Prime user or regular user.
Now when you de-serialize, you are back to your
original data types and you get the true value
in the isPrimeUser field.
Any of this kind of customization that
you may want to do where you do not have access
either to the actual objects,
or maybe your requirements are not met
with the compile time or runtime customization
that JSON binding provides, then you can go ahead,
write an adapter class like this
and put it in the Jsonb config object cited,
and then use that config object
for serializing and de-serializing.
And of course the last thing that you have to note is
you could have also done this using
the Jsonb-type adapter annotation.
It will surely be okay for you to actually attach
this annotation on your customer bean
so that the customer object is going to be
serialized and de-serialized using that adapter
instead of the default one that JSON binding provides.
So that is it about the adapters demo.
In the next video, we're going to talk about
the serializers and the de-serializers.